I. INTRODUCTION  

ABW is an application for passive monitoring of used capacity of a network
line and its distribution between protocols. It runs on top of DiMAPI 
(Distributed Monitoring Application Interface). 

Primary advantages of monitoring used capacity by ABW when compared to active
monitoring or using SNMP are the following:

    - Monitoring is completely non-intrusive, it does not affect user traffic
      in any way, it can run continuously and it measures real used capacity
      (instead of throughput of test packets after stressing user traffic).

    - We can monitor capacity usage in short intervals (e.g., 1 second) 
      and therefore detect short peaks.

    - We can distinquish capacity used by different protocols in different 
      layers of the OSI hierarchy (L2, L3, L4 or application protocols)

A combination of header filtering and payload searching is used to detect
application protocols that use dynamic ports.

II. LOCAL AND DISTRIBUTED MODE

ABW can be used in to modes:

    - In the local mode with MAPI, the user interface on the web server
	   contacts directly all remote monitoring stations capturing packets.

    - In the distributed mode with DiMAPI, the user interface on the web server
	   contacts only the central station, which in turn gathers results from
		remote monitoring stations capturing packets.

ABW can also use a combination of these two modes. That is the web server can
contact some remote monitoring stations directly and obtain results from other 
monitoring stations through the central station. 

You simply point the conf.php script on the web server to the right station for 
each monitored link - to the central station or to a remote monitoring station. 

Using the central station makes configuration in conf.php a little bit 
simpler, but contacting the remote monitoring stations directly currently 
provides faster response and is recommended.

III. MONITORING CARDS

Each remote monitoring station needs one or more network cards to capture
packets from monitored links. It can be regular NICs, DAG cards or COMBO cards.
Each card needs to be connected to on optical splitter or to a mirroring port 
on a router or switch.

Two directions of one monitored link can be monitored by:

a) two ports on a multi-port monitoring card, 
b) two single-port monitoring cards in one remote monitoring station, 
c) two single-port monitoring cards in two remote monitoring stations. 

This is configured in the ABW configuration file abw.conf. ABW gathers results 
correctly and displays them in one graph (inbound traffic in the upper part 
of the graph and outbound traffic in the lower part of the graph).

You can monitor only one direction of a link, in which case only upper
or only lower part of the graph is displayed and you can also mix both
directions together when using a mirroring port, in which case only upper
part of the graph is displayed and it includes both directions.
